- [Instructor] Now that we understand
the structure of the JSON web tokens,
let's see how it works in our application.
We have two new files in the exercises.
JwtTokenProvider which encapsulates
all of the creating and creating of the JWT tokens.
And JwtTokenFilter which is a Spring Web filter.
Web filters are classes that execute
before invoking the controller
or Spring Data REST repository methods.
We've also modified the following files:
we've added jjwt dependency in the pom.xml,
WebSecurityConfiguration is added
to the JwtTokenFilter filter,
UserController, and ExploreCaliUserDetailsService methods
are now JWT and role-based security aware,
and new properties are added to application.properties.
So let's actually run the endpoint to sign in as a user.
So we have the signin endpoint and the user is wally,
and he's sending the password letmein.
And we see a return of very long
gobbledygooped string and this is the JWT token.
We can copy this to an online website
that will interpret it.
This is the jsonwebtoken.io website,
and I'll paste this token value here.
And it will actually interpret the contents.
So we see that the header of this type is JWT.
The algorithm is HAMC SHA256.
The payload is also know as claims.
The claims that's specific to our application
are the subject and roles.
The subject is the username wally,
and the roles are ADMIN and CSR.
The next three claims are automatically generated.
Iat is the time.
The JWT was issued.
Exp is the expiration.
And the jti is the unique identifier.
Now let's go back and look at the JwtProvider class.
So in the JwtProvider class, this is the utility
that leverages the io.jsonwebtoken library.
First it Auto-wires two properties.
Let me make this a little better to read there, yes.
And these two properties are
set in the application.properties
and it's a unique secretKey value.
And the validityInMilliseconds,
we've had the expiration set for the number
of milliseconds that's for 10 minutes.
Then we have a method that will actually create the token
given the username and list of roles,
it builds the claims with the Subject.
And for each of the roles it creates
a SimpleGrantedAuthority which is
Spring Security specific interface.
And then, it adds the dates that are our interest,
like the expiration and when it was issued.
And now there are methods to decode the token.
We have a method that takes the token
and parses it to make sure it's a valid key.
And also if it does not then it would throw it an exception,
and so we return false.
There's another helper method
that's given the token it pulls off the username.
And another helper method for given the token,
it will get the roles for that user.
Now let's look at the annotations
I added to UserController class.
On the sign-up and getAllUsers methods,
there is an @PreAuthorized with ROLE_ADMIN value.
So only users with the admin role
can add in a user or look up all the users.
But how does this work?
This annotation depends on a Spring Web filter
that is establishes the authenticated users
list of granted authorities, also known as roles.
Web filters are invoked
before the controller method is invoked.
And if certain expectations are not met,
the filter can block the controller method's invocation.
Let's open up our WebSecurityConfiguration class.
And it's here that we have established
a new filter called JwtFilter.
So let's drill down into the JwtFilter.
So, with this filter,
we have overridden the doFilter method.
Our filter extends GenericFilterBean.
So I could talk through all these lines of code,
but I think it will make it easier
to understand if we actually run this in the debugger.
So, I'm gonna stop the application from running
and then run it again in debug mode.
So we hit the breakpoint in the security configuration
where we add the filter.
And the application is been running.
So let's go over to Postman,
and so I'm going to invoke the signin endpoint
with wally and letmein.
And right away, we've hit the JwtFilter
doFilter method.
And this will look and see if any authentication
is required in this case for the signin that's freely open.
So it's not gonna have to apply all those JWT token logic.
It'll just click go.
And now we're at the UserController signin method,
and I'll just click Go there.
And now we are going through the user service
for signing in.
And this is now jumping into JwtFilter
where it will create the token.
So here our username is wally.
And then we have our list of roles
already established as admin
and customer service representative.
So here we build the claims,
create the date, and then invoke the Jwts.builder method,
and returned the JWT string.
So here's our value.
Now how do we actually use it?
I'm going to copy it over here,
and remember the endpoint
for getting the users is protected.
So on the header, I have the Key
that I have to set to authorization,
and then the Value is Bearer.
And then I need a space,
and then I'm pasting in the token.
I'm gonna send that.
And we're back in our filter again,
and we're going to walk through this code.
And now because this user has the role for ROLE_ADMIN,
we do go to the getAllUsers method.
And all of the users are returned.
So I'm gonna show you happens
if you do not have the appropriate headers.
I'm invoking that same endpoint,
but I am not setting the headers.
It looks for a token and the headerValue
for looking up the token.
It does not find it.
And because it does not find it,
we go through this filter again.
Because it's trying to forward to an error endpoint
which we haven't established,
but that's something that can be done
in another option.
And we get the 403 Forbidden,
so we never actually reach the UserController method
to get all the users.
So, in TourRatingController,
I've added some other guards.
So here in TourRatingController,
I've added a user has to be preauthorized
to have the ROLE_CSR to create a TourRating,
to get the score of a TourRating of a tour.
And there is no protection on getting
all ratings for a tour, so that's publicly available
as well as getting the average score for a tour.
But to update a TourRating, you have to have that
customer representative role as well as update with PATCH,
and, of course, to delete you need
to have that preauthorized annotation.
This was a very quick overview
of the code changes in this chapter.
If you want a deeper understanding,
I encourage you to download and run the video's
exercise files locally and invoke the APIs
with the tokens yourself.